# NixOS configuration

## Installation

Clone the configuration into `/etc/nixos`.

```sh
nixos-install --flake '/mnt/etc/nixos#<config>'
```

After the installation finished, set a password for the user:
```
passwd <user>
```

## Updating

Update all flake inputs:

```sh
nix flake update
```

Update a specific flake input:

```
nix flake lock --update-input <input>
```

## Rebuilding the system

Rebuild the system:

```sh
sudo nixos-rebuild switch
# Or if nomos-rebuild custom package is already installed:
sudo nomos-rebuild switch
```

# Structure of the configuration:

<span id="hosts-hostname" ></span>
### `hosts/{hostname}`

Contains the configuration for each host. The hostname of the machine must match the name of the folder.

It must contain these files: [`default.nix` `hardware-configuration.nix` `hardware-partitions.nix` ] that are imported by the flake.nix. [See here](#mkHostFiles)

### `hosts/{hostname}/default.nix`

The main configuration file for the host. Use as a normal nixos configuration file. You can also use the [generated options](modules/generated/readme.md) to enable some of the generated modules.
You should not do any complex logic over here, instead use the [`modules/generated/nixos`](modules/generated/readme.md#nixos-default) folder and create module for that and just enable it over here. (Unless it is specific to the host, such as windows dual boot mount)

### `hosts/{hostname}/hardware-configuration.nix`

Contains the hardware configuration for the host. Usually generated by the `nixos-generate-config` command.

### `hosts/{hostname}/hardware-partitions.nix`

Contains the partition configuration for the host. Usually generated by the `nixos-generate-config` command.

## `modules/`

This is the most complex part about this config.
Modules is split into 3 sub folders `nixos`, `home-manager` and `generated`. 

<span id="modules-nixos" ></span>
### `modules/nixos/`

Contains the nixos modules. And `default.nix` which specifies which modules to import (into each nixos host (configuration)).

<span id="modules-home-manager" ></span>
### `modules/home-manager/`

Contains the home-manager modules. And `default.nix` which specifies which modules to import (into each home-manager host (configuration)).
The `default.nix` will also be included when using home-manager as nixos module. This is done automatically if you use the [lib'.mkHomeNixOsUser](#mkHomeNixOsUser) function.

### `modules/generated/`

Contains the MODULE GENERATOR, the heart of this config. This is where all the magic happens. That's why it has it's own [readme](modules/generated/readme.md).

## `lib/`

Contains helper functions:

<span id="mkOverlay" ></span>
`mkOverlay`:
Creates a nixpkgs overlay from just the name of the input,
You must provide the `name` of the input and the flake.nix must have input named `nixpkgs-${name}`.

### NixOS:
`mkHost`:
Generates nixosConfigurations.${hostname} config, this will:
<span id="mkHostFiles" ></span>
- Import the files as specified in the [`hosts/${hostname}`](#hosts-hostname) folder.
- Import the default modules [`modules/nixos/default.nix`](#modules-nixos).
- Import the default home-manager modules [`modules/home-manager/default.nix`](#modules-home-manager).
- Apply overlays [`overlays/`](#overlays) to the nixpkgs.

<span id="mkHomeNixOsUser" ></span>
`mkHomeNixOsUser`:
Generates a home-manager user when home-manager is used as a nixos module.
This will:
- Import the default home-manager modules [`modules/home-manager/default.nix`](#modules-home-manager).
- Import the home configuration as specified in [`home/`](#home).
- Import the default home-manager options based on nixos config [`home/nixosDefaults.nix`](#home-nixosDefautls).

Usage example:
```nix
home-manager.users = self.lib'.internal.mkHomeNixOsUser "martin";
```

### Home-manager:
`mkHomeModules`:
- Import the default home-manager modules [`modules/home-manager/default.nix`](#modules-home-manager).
- Import the home configuration as specified in [`home/`](#home).

<span id="home" ></span>
## `home/`

Contains the home-manager configuration.

### `home/{username}/default.nix`

Included every single time (stand alone or as nixos module).

### `home/{username}/nixos.nix`

Included only when home-manager is used as a nixos module.

### `home/{username}/{hostname}.nix`

Included only if the hostname matches. (stand alone or as nixos module).

<span id="home-nixosDefautls" ></span>
### `home/nixosDefaults.nix`

Included only when home-manager is used as a nixos module.
This file includes default values that should be used if used as nixos module. The default values are chosen based on the nixosConfig that the home-manager is being used in.

<span id="overlays" ></span>
## `overlays/`

Contains nixpkgs overlays. Mainly generated by the [`mkOverlay`](#mkOverlay) lib function.



